---
layout: post
title: Relative Clause
date: 2024-10-24 22:39:23 +0900
category: English
---


# Relative Clause
## Examples of Relative Clauses
- The windows **that you installed last year** have warped.
- Kindness is the language **which the deaf can hear and the blind can see**. (Writer Mark Twain)
- The follies **which a man regrets most in his life** are those **which he didn't commit when he had the opportunity**. (US journalist Helen Rowland)
(Even though this is a quotation by an American journalist, nowadays, most writers in the US would use "that" instead of "which." There's more on this below.)


## The Traits of a Relative Clause
1. A relative clause is headed by a relative pronoun ("who," "whom," "whose," "that," or "which") or a relative adverb ("when," "where," or "why"), which links it to the noun it is modifying.
2. A relative clause has a subject and a verb. 
3. A relative clause tells us something about the noun.

## Common Mistakes
> **Should I use a comma before "which?**

- Do not put commas around your clause if it is essential; i.e., it is required to identify its noun. (This is called a restrictive clause.)
- Do use commas if your clause is just additional information. (This is called a non-restrictive clause.)


### Examples
1. My brother, who claimed to have a limp, sprinted after the bus. correct tick
(This clause is not required to identify "My brother." It is just additional information.)
2. My brother (who claimed to have a limp) sprinted after the bus. correct tick
(As it's just additional information, you can put it in brackets.)
3. My brother sprinted after the bus. correct tick
(As it's just additional information, you can even delete it.)


> **What's the difference between "that" and "which"?**
1. "Which" and "that" are interchangeable, provided we're talking about "which" without a comma.
